My project takes the rate at which ALL species on Earth are going extinct, and
dims a CG light bulb at the same rate. When all species have
gone extinct, the "Lifebulb" won't be lit any longer.

The Lifebulb satirizes the first world’s exaltation of energy and the
commodities that come with it (light, appliances, etc) by drawing a connection
between energy and the environment. The destruction of habitats and the
consequential endangerment of species are common knowledge, but they are not
universally acknowledged. So, in an attempt to grab the attention of people
who would not otherwise care, the subject of this piece is something we
in the first world are all very used to acknowledging: a light bulb.

The fulfillment of many of our first world whims is reliant on our access to
light, and consequently, it is often reflexive to replace an old bulb with a
new one. We are so quick to take action, because we are inconvenienced
personally and immediately. But the same cannot be done with an extinct
species — and we don’t seem to care. By equating the decline of a population
to the dimming of a light bulb, I am criticizing the selfishness of the first
world and arguing that we should be giving as much attention to the
preservation of species as we are giving to the fulfillment of our whims.

* * *

Coding the Lifebulb was not particularly difficult: from the start I had a
pretty good understanding of how I would work with the data. What was troubling,
though, was figuring out how to get Maya to import the module that I was
fixed on using, which was 'requests.' However, two realizations convinced me
to take a different approach: first, there was no way that I was going to find
an API that would feed the data to me live, and second, it would be way easier
to extrapolate the data from existing findings. So that is exactly what I did,
and Maya was perfectly cooperative, since it already had the modules that I
would need to do this ('datetime' and 're').

Having completed this project, I am very pleased that I've finally coded
something for Maya! This is something that I've wanted to try for about a year,
but I couldn't do it because I didn't have any experience coding in Python
(or MEL, Maya's proprietary language). Now I am excited to tackle new code-
oriented projects in Maya :D
